2.15 monitoring v2 deprecation notice (#1333)
rancher/rancher-product-docs: community-docs/v2.15/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-guides/advanced-user-guides/monitoring-alerting-guides/index.adoc

ifeval::["{build-type}" != "srfa"]
:page-languages: [en, zh]
endif::[]
:revdate: 2026-08-05
:page-revdate: {revdate}
:community-path: how-to-guides/advanced-user-guides/monitoring-alerting-guides/monitoring-alerting-guides
:product-path:

[CAUTION]
.Deprecation Notice
====
Rancher Monitoring v2 is deprecated.

New monitoring installations use the decoupled `rancher-monitoring-dashboards` chart.

> Rancher maintains the legacy `rancher-monitoring` chart to support existing deployments, but it does not receive new updates. Use the `rancher-monitoring-dashboards` chart for ongoing updates and support. Refer to the xref:integrations-in-rancher/monitoring-and-alerting/index.adoc#_migrating_from_rancher-monitoring_to_rancher_monitoring_dashboards[Migrating from `rancher-monitoring` to `rancher-monitoring-dashboards` guide] for more information on migrating to the new chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rancher Monitoring v2 (`rancher-monitoring`) is deprecated and no longer receives updates. Rancher maintains the legacy chart only to support existing deployments. For new installations, ongoing updates, and support, use the decoupled `rancher-monitoring-dashboards` chart.

For instructions on migrating, see xref:integrations-in-rancher/monitoring-and-alerting/index.adoc#_migrating_from_rancher-monitoring_to_rancher_monitoring_dashboards[Migrating from `rancher-monitoring` to `rancher-monitoring-dashboards`].
```

Reviewer: @sunilarjun Also noticed that when we put xref text in backticks, it renders like this (the hyperlink text is a mix of black and blue). Should we consider not adding backticks in this case or is this something that can be changed in the style bundle?

<img width="725" height="189" alt="Screenshot 2026-08-05 at 1 58 32 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9bc2f492-b220-43e3-b90b-287c91cc9b92" />

Author: Thanks for reviewing @LucasSaintarbor. Noting that this can also be seen in the product docs ([example](https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/rancher-manager/latest/en/cluster-admin/helm-charts-in-rancher/helm-charts-in-rancher.html#:~:text=Airgap%20installations%20where%20Rancher%20is%20configured%20to%20use%20the%20packaged%20copy%20of%20Helm%20system%20charts%20(useBundledSystemChart%3Dtrue)%20will%20only%20refer%20to%20the%20system%2Dchart%20repository%20that%20comes%20bundled%20and%20will%20not%20be%20able%20to%20be%20refreshed%20or%20synced.)). I think we can leave it for consistency and the information is still highlighted as users would expect the clickable link to be.

Reviewer: @sunilarjun Agreed. Thanks for taking a look.
